Briefing: Gradle Project Structure and Configuration

This document provides a detailed overview of key aspects
of Gradle project structure and configuration based on the
provided source. It focuses on the roles of build.gradle
and settings.gradle files, multi-module project setup,
dependency management, and essential project settings.

I. Core Configuration Files: build.gradle and settings.gradle

The two fundamental files for configuring a Gradle project
are build.gradle and settings.gradle, both located in the
project's root directory.

settings.gradle:
This file is crucial for defining the structure of multi-module projects.

Multi-Module Projects:
The source explicitly states, "В нашем репозитории мы
используем многомодульный проект Gradle." (In our repository,
we use a multi-module Gradle project.)

Module Registration:
All individual modules within the repository are declared
in settings.gradle. The source notes, "Все они прописаны в
файле settings.gradle. В этот файл вы добавляли и свой модуль."
(All of them are registered in the settings.gradle file.
You also added your module to this file.)

Independent Module Builds:
When the overall build process (the build command) is initiated,
Gradle modules are built independently unless explicit dependencies
exist between them: "Gradle модули при запуске общего процесса сборки
(команда build) собираются (билдятся) отдельно друг от друга
(если между ними нет зависимостей)."

build.gradle:
This file, also in the root directory, contains the
"общая конфигурация для всех модулей проекта" (general
configuration for all project modules).

II. Common Project Configuration in build.gradle

The build.gradle file outlines several critical configurations
that apply across the entire project:

Dependency Repositories (buildscript block):
The buildscript block specifies where Gradle should find
the dependencies required for the build process itself
(e.g., Gradle plugins).

mavenCentral() is used as the primary repository:
"buildscript { repositories { mavenCentral() } }"
"Эта часть настройки означает, что наш проект будет
брать зависимости из репозитория Maven Central." (This part of the configuration means that our project will take dependencies from the Maven Central repository.) Maven Central (https://mvnrepository.com/repos/central) is an "открытый репозиторий в котором публикуются Java библиотеки" (open repository where Java libraries are published) that can be included in projects.

Gradle Plugins:
The apply plugin lines activate specific Gradle plugins
that provide additional functionality.

The project uses the java and idea plugins:
"apply plugin: 'java' apply plugin: 'idea'".
The source encourages further exploration of Gradle plugins.

Java Compatibility:
The sourceCompatibility and targetCompatibility settings
dictate the Java Development Kit (JDK) version used for
source code and compiled bytecode, respectively.

"sourceCompatibility = '21' targetCompatibility = '21'"
indicates that "мы пишем и компилим проект с использованием
JDK 21" (we write and compile the project using JDK 21).

Encoding:
Consistent character encoding is ensured for source files.
"compileJava { options.encoding = "UTF-8" } compileTestJava
{ options.encoding = "UTF-8" }" means "Используем кодировку
UTF-8" (We use UTF-8 encoding).

Testing Framework:
The test block specifies the testing platform.
"test { useJUnitPlatform() }" indicates the use
of "платформу для тестирования JUnit 5" (JUnit 5 testing platform).

III. Key Takeaways and Further Exploration

Centralized Configuration:
build.gradle provides a single point for common settings
applied to all modules, promoting consistency.

Modular Development:
settings.gradle is fundamental for managing and building
complex projects composed of multiple independent modules.

Dependency Management:
Maven Central is highlighted as a primary source for Java
libraries, a critical component of most Java projects.

Standard Practices:
The configuration demonstrates common industry practices,
such as using UTF-8 encoding, a specific JDK version,
and JUnit 5 for testing.

Self-Service Learning:
The document implicitly encourages users to
"загуглите инфу про них" (google information about them)
if any concepts are unclear, emphasizing a self-directed
learning approach.