Briefing: Gradle Clean - Artifact Removal Essentials

This briefing summarizes the key information regarding
artifact removal using the Gradle clean command, based
on the provided excerpts from
"Gradle Clean: Artifact Removal Essentials."

Main Theme: Artifact Removal and the clean Command

The core theme of the source is the process of removing
artifacts (files) created by Gradle during the application
build process. This is primarily achieved through the use of
the clean command.

Most Important Ideas/Facts:

Definition of Artifacts:
Artifacts are explicitly defined as "files created by Gradle
in the application build process." These files are typically
found within the build folder.

Location of Artifacts:
The source clearly states, "In the build folder are the
artifacts created by Gradle in the application build process."
It further notes that this folder "is usually highlighted red in IDEA."

Purpose of clean Command:
The clean command is introduced as a "useful command"
that "removes all artifacts created by Gradle during the build."
It explicitly states that "The Gradle clean command removes the
build folder, that is, it removes all artifacts created during
the application build process."

Analogy to build Command:
The source repeatedly draws an analogy between the clean
and build commands, suggesting similar execution methods.

Execution Methods for clean:
The clean command can be executed in two primary ways:

From the Gradle Tab (IDE):
The user is instructed to "run the clean command from the
Gradle tab for the entire project and only for your module."
This implies an integrated development environment (IDE) like
IntelliJ IDEA.

From the Terminal:
The source provides specific command-line examples:

./gradlew clean: To clean the entire project.

./gradlew :internship:clean: To clean a specific module
(in this example, named internship).

In summary, the clean command is an essential Gradle
tool for managing build-generated files, ensuring a
clean slate for subsequent builds by removing the
entire build directory and its contents.